---
layout: post
title: "ESXi Server"
permalink: /:categories/:year/:month/:day/:title/
---

About six months ago I bought a couple of small form factor Dell desktops in a public auction, but I hadn't really done anything with them yet and had been looking for something useful to do. The opportunity came along when I began planning my cybersecurity capstone project for my degree. I had decided to beef up my home's cybersecurity, so I used on of them to install pfSense and segregate my trusted and untrusted devices in my home on different subnets. So that took care of one of them, but what about the other?

A friend had suggested Pihole to block ads on my network, but I don't have a Raspberry Pi. However, Pihole can be installed on several different Linux distros so I figured I would just install Ubuntu on the other Dell and put Pihole on that. The problem was I had a decently good CPU, 24 GB of RAM, and a terrabyte of storage space (split between a 500 GB HDD and a 500 GB SSD) -- overkill for Ubuntu running Pihole.

Cue ESXi.

ESXi is a bare-metal hypervisor that uses FreeBSD Linux and can serve as a personal cloud server. What's so great about it for me is now I can spin up multiple VMs at once, access them from any other computer in my home in a web browser, and not use up the host machine's resources! I was sold.

Because I have friends who may want to do the same, and because I will likely do this again in the future, here's my instructions on setting up ESXi.

> Note: you can't install this on top of an operating system -- it _is_ an operating system. So just know that you will be writing over the current OS on the drive you install it on.

