---
layout: post
title: "NPC Simulation"
permalink: /:categories/:year/:month/:day/:title/
---

I've been part of a development team working on a simulated work environment to train staff on cybersecurity awareness. Part of the educational program they will go though will direct them to capture network traffic and sift through it to find something malicious. However, we want the simulation to be as realistic as possible, so the bad stuff can't be the only thing they see. That's where my NPC simulation comes in. We got the initial idea from Carnegie Mellon's GHOSTS Framework, but for _reasons_, I decided to go a different route and develop my own scripts.

The type of traffic we wanted the PCAP to pick up includes SSH, RDP, SMTP, and HTTP traffic. When I was first tasked with this project, I really only knew how to use SSH and RDP, but I had only ever used the Windows GUI for RDP connections, so programming this presented me with a fun challenge that pushed the boundaries of my skills.

Here's some pseudocode of what I wanted to accomplish:

```
loop
    ssh to another host, then disconnect
    wait
    RDP to another host, then disconnect
    wait
    send email from CLI
    visit a website
    wait
```

# SSH

I've been using SSH regularly for while, so this part was easy. Except it wasn't. See, I needed a way to disconnect the session automatically, either via the client script or on the server's side. If I was SSHing into a Linux machine, that would be easy -- just add the `TMOUT=` variable in the user's profile and set it to a relatively short length of time. But for _reasons_, all the machines I was using were Windows and I couldn't find a way to auto-logout an SSH session on Windows.

I started 